# Contributing

If you are developing within the Crucible Framework or building an application to work alongside the Crucible Framework, please consider contributing documentation back to this repository. The documentation contained within is written in Markdown. The static site to display it is built using [Material for MkDocs](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/) and Github Pages.

## Documentation Contribution Process

1. The easiest way to get started is to **fork this repo**. This will create a copy of the repository under your own personal account, allowing you to experiment with the documentation and formatting without affecting the main project. It will also copy all Github Actions workflows so that you can build your own static Github Pages site.
2. After forking, you need to enable workflows since Github automatically disables them for forks. Click **Actions** and then click **I understand my workflows, go ahead and enable them**. There is only one workflow, *build-mkdocs* that will run when code is pushed to the main branch. This workflow will create a new branch titled *gh-pages* that we will use as a source for Github Pages.  You must also ensure that GitHub Actions has read/write permissions to the repository. Navigate to your project **Settings** and select **Actions** then **General** under **Code and automation**. Scroll to the bottom and select *Read and Write Permissions*. Make sure to **Save**.
3. Add your documentation as appropriate. All current documentation is under the *docs* directory.  If you are contributing a new application, create a new directory under *docs* for it. If adding screenshots or other media, add them under the *assets* directory. Keep in mind that Material for MkDocs prefers relative links when adding screenshots etc. to markdown documentation.
4. If adding new application documentaiton, adding it to the navigation header in the static GitHub Pages site is done in the *mkdocs.yml* file at the root of the repository.  Add a new section under the *nav:* header. If you want to nest further sections under your application sections, make sure each sub-section's relevant documenation is contained within its own subdirectory.
5. When you are satisified with your documentaiton, push to the *main* branch of your fork. This will trigger the *build-mkdocs* workflow which will create the *gh-pages* branch.
6. Confirm that the *build-mkdocs* workflow completed under **Actions**. If there is an error, first ensure that you set Github Actions permissions properly in Step 2. You can view the workflow run in the Actions sections to view specific error messages. Misconfigurations in *mkdocs.yml* can cause a failed run. If unable to resolve errors, please submit an issue to the main Crucible project.
7. Once the *build-mkdocs* workflow has succeeded, go to your project **Settings** and select **Pages**. Under *Build and Deployment* ensure that *Deploy from branch* is selected as the **Source** and choose the *gh-pages* branch and *root* directory. Make sure to **Save**.

If all steps are performed successfully, GitHub Pages will build a static site every time new code is pushed to the *main* branch of your fork. This site will be available at *https://[github-username].github.io/crucible*. This allows you to make and preview changes rapidly. If you are not seeing the changes, please check the *build-mkdocs* workflow for errors.

When you are satisfied with your documentation and want to contribute back to the main project, open a Pull Request and your contribution will be reviewed by a Crucible maintainer.
